README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <p>Bringing Data 📊 to Life with Machine Learning 🧠</p>
</div>

## 🚀 About Me

- Machine Learning Engineer with **8 years** of tech experience.
- Skilled in handling multiple tasks and building end-to-end ML and **LLM** pipelines.
- Proven expertise in **NLP**, **Recommender Systems**, **Large Language Models** and classical algorithms.
- Proficient in **AWS SageMaker**, **Kubernetes**, **Docker** and **Apache Kafka**.

## 💼 Tools and Technologies

- **Machine Learning / Data Science**: Specialized in Recommender Systems, NLP, and Deep Learning.
- **AWS SageMaker**: Pipelines, Processing Jobs, etc., for workflow orchestration.
- **Docker & Kubernetes**: and AWS ECS for container orchestration.
- **Apache Kafka**: Along with Apache Flink and AWS Kinesis for stream processing and real time analytics & anomaly detection.
- **Python3 and Django**: Proficient in Python and web development.
- **AWS QuickSight**: For advanced analytics and visualization.
- **CI/CD**: Bitbucket Pipelines for continuous integration and continuous deployment.
- **SQL skills** and basic knowledge of **C & C++**.

## ✍️ Authored Articles

- [Deploy LLM with vLLM on SageMaker in only 13 lines of code](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/deploy-llm-with-vllm-on-sagemaker-in-only-13-lines-of-code-1601f780c0cf)
  - Published on **Jul 11, 2024**

- [Use Sentence Transformers in AWS Lambda with EFS](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/use-sentence-transformers-in-aws-lambda-with-efs-d99ad6b36436)
  - Published on **May 12, 2024**

- [How to Productionize Large Language Models \(LLMs\)](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/how-to-productionize-large-language-models-llms-060a4cb1a169)
  - Published on **Mar 27, 2024**

- [Deploy Kubernetes cluster on AWS EC2 instances](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/deploy-kubernetes-cluster-on-aws-ec2-instances-f3eeca9e95f1)
  - Published on **Dec 22, 2023**

- [How to make a Recommender System Chatbot with LLMs](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/how-to-make-a-recommender-system-chatbot-with-llms-770c12bbca4a)
  - Published on **Nov 13, 2023**

- [Streamline AI/ML Project Documentation on Jupyter notebook & ReadTheDocs](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/streamline-ai-ml-project-documentation-on-jupyter-notebook-readthedocs-e010869a7ace)
  - Published on **Sep 17, 2023**

- [How to deploy a LLM chatbot: 4 ways to productionize and bring the chatbot to the customers](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/how-to-deploy-a-llm-chatbot-7f1e10dd202e)
  - Published on **Aug 15, 2023**

- [Automating Ad-Hoc Reports with Discord Bot, AWS Lambda, and Sagemaker](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/automating-ad-hoc-reports-with-discord-bot-aws-lambda-and-sagemaker-25d40e371a8a)
  - Published on **Jul 23, 2023**

- [Ask Questions and Get Plots on your Data with PandasAI & ChatGPT](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/238e13ca1b9f)
  - Published on **Jul 8, 2023**

- [How to Build an Intelligent QA Chatbot on your data with LLM or ChatGPT](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/how-to-build-an-intelligent-qa-chatbot-on-your-data-with-llm-or-chatgpt-d0009d256dce)
  - Published on **Jul 2, 2023**

- [Unleash Your Inner Artist: Create Stunning Images for Free with Stable Diffusion WebUI — No Coding Skills Needed!](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/unleash-your-inner-artist-create-stunning-images-for-free-with-stable-diffusion-webui-no-coding-11eb3a4914df)
  - Published on **Jun 19, 2023**

- [Revolutionize Your AI Game: Master the Art of Deploying Machine Learning Models Like a Pro!](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/revolutionize-your-ai-game-master-the-art-of-deploying-machine-learning-models-like-a-pro-7702834ad041)
  - Published on **May 21, 2023**

- [Real-time Anomaly Detection: How Amazon Kinesis Can Help You Stay Ahead of the Game](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/real-time-anomaly-detection-how-amazon-kinesis-can-help-you-stay-ahead-of-the-game-229ae8b32e62)
  - Published on **Apr 24, 2023**

- [Unlocking Hidden Revenue: How Conducting an 80–20 Analysis on Customers Can Boost Your Business’s Bottom Line](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/unlocking-hidden-revenue-how-conducting-an-80-20-analysis-on-customers-can-boost-your-businesss-66307220a996)
  - Published on **Apr 22, 2023**

- [Building Knowledge on the Customer Through Machine Learning](https://medium.com/swlh/building-knowledge-on-customer-through-machine-learning-2785b344749f)
  - Published on **Jul 4, 2020**

## 📅 Work History

- **Machine Learning Engineer** at ExpoPlatform
  - **Duration**: Feb 2022 - Present

- **Freelance ML/AI Solution Provider**
  - **Duration**: Feb 21 - Feb 2022

- **Data Scientist** at Amrit College
  - **Duration**: June 19 - Feb 2021

- **Technical Consultant** at Prêt-fab
  - **Duration**: June 2017 - June 2019

- **Startup Owner** at FFINITY
  - **Duration**: Apr 2016 - June 2017

Commit message:

Update README.md with new article links.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <p>Bringing Data 📊 to Life with Machine Learning 🧠</p>
</div>

## 🚀 About Me

- Machine Learning Engineer with **8 years** of tech experience.
- Skilled in handling multiple tasks and building end-to-end ML and **LLM** pipelines.
- Proven expertise in **NLP**, **Recommender Systems**, **Large Language Models** and classical algorithms.
- Proficient in **AWS SageMaker**, **Kubernetes**, **Docker** and **Apache Kafka**.

## 💼 Tools and Technologies

- **Machine Learning / Data Science**: Specialized in Recommender Systems, NLP, and Deep Learning.
- **AWS SageMaker**: Pipelines, Processing Jobs, etc., for workflow orchestration.
- **Docker & Kubernetes**: and AWS ECS for container orchestration.
- **Apache Kafka**: Along with Apache Flink and AWS Kinesis for stream processing and real time analytics & anomaly detection.
- **Python3 and Django**: Proficient in Python and web development.
- **AWS QuickSight**: For advanced analytics and visualization.
- **CI/CD**: Bitbucket Pipelines for continuous integration and continuous deployment.
- **SQL skills** and basic knowledge of **C & C++**.

## ✍️ Authored Articles

- [Build a Customer Support Assistant with Llama3.1](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/build-a-customer-support-assistant-with-llama3-1-7bf60611e428)
  - Published on **Aug 19, 2024**
 
- [LLM Cache: The Secret Weapon You’re Overlooking](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/llm-cache-the-secret-weapon-youre-overlooking-a26b6ddab7cc)
  - Published on **Jul 28, 2024**

- [Deploy LLM with vLLM on SageMaker in only 13 lines of code](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/deploy-llm-with-vllm-on-sagemaker-in-only-13-lines-of-code-1601f780c0cf)
  - Published on **Jul 11, 2024**

- [Use Sentence Transformers in AWS Lambda with EFS](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/use-sentence-transformers-in-aws-lambda-with-efs-d99ad6b36436)
  - Published on **May 12, 2024**

- [How to Productionize Large Language Models \(LLMs\)](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/how-to-productionize-large-language-models-llms-060a4cb1a169)
  - Published on **Mar 27, 2024**

- [Deploy Kubernetes cluster on AWS EC2 instances](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/deploy-kubernetes-cluster-on-aws-ec2-instances-f3eeca9e95f1)
  - Published on **Dec 22, 2023**

- [How to make a Recommender System Chatbot with LLMs](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/how-to-make-a-recommender-system-chatbot-with-llms-770c12bbca4a)
  - Published on **Nov 13, 2023**

- [Streamline AI/ML Project Documentation on Jupyter notebook & ReadTheDocs](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/streamline-ai-ml-project-documentation-on-jupyter-notebook-readthedocs-e010869a7ace)
  - Published on **Sep 17, 2023**

- [How to deploy a LLM chatbot: 4 ways to productionize and bring the chatbot to the customers](https://mrmaheshrajput.medium.com/how-to-deploy-a-llm-chatbot-7f1e10dd202e)
  - Published on **Aug 15, 2023**

- [Automating Ad-Hoc Reports with Discord Bot, AWS Lambda, and Sagemaker](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/automating-ad-hoc-reports-with-discord-bot-aws-lambda-and-sagemaker-25d40e371a8a)
  - Published on **Jul 23, 2023**

- [Ask Questions and Get Plots on your Data with PandasAI & ChatGPT](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/238e13ca1b9f)
  - Published on **Jul 8, 2023**

- [How to Build an Intelligent QA Chatbot on your data with LLM or ChatGPT](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/how-to-build-an-intelligent-qa-chatbot-on-your-data-with-llm-or-chatgpt-d0009d256dce)
  - Published on **Jul 2, 2023**

- [Unleash Your Inner Artist: Create Stunning Images for Free with Stable Diffusion WebUI — No Coding Skills Needed!](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/unleash-your-inner-artist-create-stunning-images-for-free-with-stable-diffusion-webui-no-coding-11eb3a4914df)
  - Published on **Jun 19, 2023**

- [Revolutionize Your AI Game: Master the Art of Deploying Machine Learning Models Like a Pro!](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/revolutionize-your-ai-game-master-the-art-of-deploying-machine-learning-models-like-a-pro-7702834ad041)
  - Published on **May 21, 2023**

- [Real-time Anomaly Detection: How Amazon Kinesis Can Help You Stay Ahead of the Game](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/real-time-anomaly-detection-how-amazon-kinesis-can-help-you-stay-ahead-of-the-game-229ae8b32e62)
  - Published on **Apr 24, 2023**

- [Unlocking Hidden Revenue: How Conducting an 80–20 Analysis on Customers Can Boost Your Business’s Bottom Line](https://medium.com/@mrmaheshrajput/unlocking-hidden-revenue-how-conducting-an-80-20-analysis-on-customers-can-boost-your-businesss-66307220a996)
  - Published on **Apr 22, 2023**

- [Building Knowledge on the Customer Through Machine Learning](https://medium.com/swlh/building-knowledge-on-customer-through-machine-learning-2785b344749f)
  - Published on **Jul 4, 2020**

## 📅 Work History

- **Machine Learning Engineer** at ExpoPlatform
  - **Duration**: Feb 2022 - Present

- **Freelance ML/AI Solution Provider**
  - **Duration**: Feb 21 - Feb 2022

- **Data Scientist** at Amrit College
  - **Duration**: June 19 - Feb 2021

- **Technical Consultant** at Prêt-fab
  - **Duration**: June 2017 - June 2019

- **Startup Owner** at FFINITY
  - **Duration**: Apr 2016 - June 2017
